The operator first obtains a land use and land cover (LULC) classification in the
area of interest for the selected observation period using the LULC utility. Next,
carbon stocks are assigned to the LULC classes. The carbon stocks describe how much
carbon is stored in a hectare of this LULC class on average, including soil carbon and
vegetation carbon. The carbon stocks are 71 t/ha for the class settlement, 106 t/ha
for the class agriculture, and 227 t/ha for the class forest. For the class
settlement,the carbon stock value is combined from the vegetation carbon stock
estimated for Leipzig which is 11 t/ha (Strohbach & Haase 2012), and a soil carbon
estimation for suburban areas in England which is 60 t/ha (Bradley et al. 2006). These
carbon stocks were chosen, because this methodology is based on a study that was done
in the central- and western European context (Ulrich et al. 2023). Leipzig can be seen
as representative for many cities in central and western Europe. The estimated soil
carbon content for suburban areas was chosen because the settlement class contains not
only dense city centers, but also many suburban and rural settlement with much green
space. When applying this operator outside of central and western Europe, the carbon
stocks might have to be adapted.
The carbon stock value that is utilized for cropland is combined from the vegetation
carbon stock from the BLUE model, which is 5 t/ha (Hansis et al. 2015) and the soil
carbon stock from a database of the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, which
is 101 t/ha (Houghton & Hackler 2001). The carbon stock for forest is combined from
the vegetation carbon stock of secondary deciduous forest from the BLUE model, which
is 100 t/ha (Hansis et al. 2015) and the soil carbon stock of secondary temerate
deciduous forest from a database of the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center,
which is 127 t/ha (Houghton & Hackler 2001). The carbon stocks for secondary deciduous
forest were chosen because the original study area in western Europe has little to no
primary forests and deciduous forest is the natural vegetation in most of the area.
For other study areas, different carbon stock values might be more suitable.
The LULC change emissions are estimated as committed fluxes, which is a
straightforward approach assuming that the carbon stocks before and after a LULC
change are in an equilibrium and not accounting for the temporal dimension of delayed
changes (Hansis et al., 2015). The carbon emissions in t/ha are derived by calculating
the difference between the assigned carbon stocks at the beginning and at the end of
the observation period. The LULC change emission map shows the carbon emissions in
t/ha. From the emission value you can infer the LULC change type (see below). The
emission value describes the emissions caused by the LULC change detected between
beginning and end of the observation period. It is assumed that a maximum of one LULC
change occurred at every location during the observation period. A negative emission
value means that carbon is sequestered as a result of the LULC change (carbon sink).
Carbon emissions in t/ha and corresponding LULC change type:

-156: settlement to forest,
-121: agriculture to forest,
-35: settlement to agriculture,
0: no change,
35: agriculture to settlement,
121: forest to agriculture,
156: forest to settlement.

Besides the carbon emissions in t/ha, the total change area by LULC change type, the
total change emissions by LULC change type, the total change area, as well as the
total net emissions, gross emissions, and carbon sink are calculated. Net emissions
are the combination of emissions and carbon sinks, gross emissions are the total LULC
change emissions of carbon to the atmosphere, and carbon sink means the total
sequestration of carbon as a result of LULC change.'